Hey guys, welcome back to the course and welcome
to the new section on conceptualizing your ideas.
If you want to build a great product,
you first have to conceptualize it.
And any great product, it's a result of a long process
of development and refinement.
No product can stand on its own without a
well thought out and well built foundation.
And with that in mind, we're going to learn one of the crucial skills for conceptualizing your idea and communicating it.
Wireframing. Now, what is a wireframe?
Some of you guys have heard of this before.
Feel free to skip this lecture.
But for those of you who do not know what it is,
a wireframe is a visual guide for a web site, web app,
or mobile app that basically lays out a rough structure
for where the content is going to go. When you're
making a web app, or a mobile app, or just a regular old web site,
what is the first thing you do
long before you have anything actually built,
and anything to actually play with?
Well, the first thing you usually do is you wireframe it.
Now, why do we make wire frames?
Well, when you first come up with your product idea or your feature idea, you're in what we call the design phase. In the design phase,
everything's kind of up in the air. Feature ideas are thrown around,
you don't know exactly what's going to go in it,
it's very abstract, it's very amorphous. Wireframing
is usually the first step you will take in corralling
that information that's in everyone's head and
what's been communicated only verbally up until this point
onto something that is definite and precise.
Think of it as the first rough translation of a product idea.
And specifically, when you start wireframing,
you're going to start wireframing with what we call
a low fidelity wireframe - low fidelity in this
case just meaning not very exact, not a lot of detail, not very precise. So it's: fidelity being accuracy, low - low accuracy.
These versions are very basic.
They're created really quickly and they're really just meant
to test broad concepts and define the overall
vision for what we're trying to build.
The idea here is that we're going to paint with broad strokes
and this is going to allow us to then
go and do some user research collect some feedback
internally, as well as from potential users,
and then, over time, we can slowly define more and more
of the product or feature, and really start
to figure out what it does, how it does it, and what it looks like.
Generally, teams have a very iterative process with wireframing, and as they gather more and more
feedback, they're going to add more and more fidelity,
they're going to add more detail to the actual mockup.
We'll go from things like broad sketches of a circle
that just says "button" to a circle that actually
has shape, that says "Sign up" or whatever the button's actually supposed to do, to a button that is actually designed.
You'll go from things like writing scribble text,
like Lorem Ipsum, or just gibberish, to writing out
a rough outline of what the content should say, to writing out the actual finished copywriting that should go on the website.
You'll go through that process, and eventually you'll land at the top of the high fidelity curve, and your mockups at that point,
if you took a glance at them, you might not know
that they were not functional.
They'll have graphic design,
they'll have the lay out and the information pretty much decided.
Now, do product managers themselves wireframe?
Well, it actually just depends. If you're on a smaller team, like a startup, you probably will be required to do some wireframing.
That's just because small teams are going to wear a lot more hats and it's kind of an all hands on deck type situation. If you can do it,
they're going to ask you to do it. Now, as you move up organizations,
and they get larger, and larger, and
larger, your role is going to become more defined and it's going to become more narrow. In those type of situations,
you might not be asked to wireframe, it kind of just
depends on the company, but you will need familiarity
with wireframing. Typically, what's going to happen
with a product manager in a larger company is that
you will be asked to sit down with graphic designers
and together create wireframes, and you will have
to contribute to it, but you won't have to be an expert,
or be super polished with the UX skill.
Another common scenario is that you might yourself
have to sketch out an idea that you want to propose,
because you don't want to take up resources from other
people who can make it in a more fidelity way.
So if you want to be effective as a product manager
or as an entrepreneur in web or mobile technology,
you need to know how to communicate complex feature and product ideas, and wireframing is the way we
do that. You don't have to be a UX guru,
you don't have to grow a goatee or anything, but you will
be expected to know the basics, and maybe, in a pinch,
whip up some wireframes yourself.
So in the first half of the section, we're going to focus
on getting you up to speed with wireframes, show
you how, with a very little time investment, get in, get out,
and learn to be dangerous. And, hey, worst case scenario,
you now have a skill that you can impress your coworkers with,
and you don't have to bug people every
time you want to draft something up.
All right. See you in the next lecture.